\section{Security}

This hybrid solution allows us to use the parent chain as a reliable protector
against most of the attacks that target the PoS systems\cite{pos_attacks}. In
this section, we assume that the parent chain is secured well, and every user
has easy and reliable access to it.

\subsection{Nothing at stake}

This type of attack splits into two cases: micro forks and generational forks.

\subsubsection{Micro forks}

A malicious leader may produce blocks without any cost. They are free to create
conflicting branches within a single generation. This case is very similar to
BitcoinNG's\cite{bcng}. However, this kind of forking is not dangerous in our
case. It may introduce some mess initially but becomes solved instantly with the
next key block.

\begin{figure}[h]
	\caption{Micro fork}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[scale=0.35]{microfork}
\end{figure}

\subsubsection{Generational forks}

This happens when there are multiple key blocks produced by a leader, most
likely as a consequence of a micro fork described above.

\begin{figure}[h]
	\caption{Generational Fork}
	\centering
	\includegraphics[scale=0.35]{genfork}
\end{figure}

The $K1a$, $K1b$, etc. are key blocks on the child chain emitted by a malicious
leader over different micro blocks. This effectively splits the network into
many parts, as it becomes unclear to which of the forks the delegates should
commit.

Similarly to PoW chains, this is supposed to be solved by the rest of the
network. Eventually some peers shall decide on one of the forks breaking the
balance in the weight function described below. After that happens the
``heavier'' chain shall be deemed the right one.

A weight function should reflect the staking power of stakers to committed to a
fork. This shall be defined in a smart contract. An example weight would sum up
all the staked tokens of those supporting the fork by their commitments to the
parent chain.

\subsection{Lazy leader}

A leader who does not produce a key block is called ``lazy''. In case of a lazy
leader, anyone can produce a key block on behalf of them. This splits the
network the in the same way as in generational fork, and shall be resolved the
same way. In case a lazy leader submits a key block after that, it is up to the
network to proceed on either key block. This is not more dangerous than just
ignoring a peer.

\subsection{Stake grinding}

Since the RNG depends exclusively on the key block hash on a PoW chain, it is
impossible to predict its outcomes. One could try to mine the parent chain in a
special way, but it would require so much computational power that in most cases
it would be easier to take control by a 51\% attack.

\subsection{Long range attack}

While it is still possible to perform a long range attack, it would be
impossible to do it secretly and without preparation since the very beginning.
The commitments guarantee that the information of delegates is stored on an
immutable chain, and one would need to announce their will of mining suspicious
blocks during the entire period of the attack. This would quickly expose the
intention of the attacker and let the others prepare for a possible upcoming
attack (by blacklisting them, for example).

\subsection{Overloading parent chain}

Healthy commitment mechanism is the key for a fair election on a hyperchain. If
some of the delegates get prevented from publishing commitment transactions on
the parent their chances of becoming a leader will drop to zero regardless of
their stake. This is a vulnerable point of the system which can be possibly
exploited. On most blockchains there is a limitation on the number/total size of
transactions in a single block. A malicious leader could send numerous
commitments to fill the entire block leaving no place for the others.

This strategy hands the staking value to parent's tokens in some sense. The
difference is that in this case the financial effort made to boost one's chances
of election is disposable (as long as the attacker did not mine that block â€“ but
then they could just reject other commitments). At the time of writing the costs
of performing such an attack are huge on most blockchains and it is almost
impossible to sustain it for a longer time. Note that in order to take full
control over just a single generation the attacker would need to invest funds
equal to significantly extended transaction fee multiplied by the network
throughput hoping that every other commitment will get superseded by
\textit{every} of his spam transaction. If it is not enough, performing an
election each $k_{> 1}$ blocks would greatly amplify the required effort.

\subsection{No commitments}

It may be the case that no one commits to a key block, or that a miner on the
parent chain does not include any of the commitments. It is up to the election
smart contract to decide on happens in that case. For example, a ``lazy leader''
scenario may be utilized, eventually with an assumption that the previous leader
takes over the leadership if available.
